---
title: Twenty-two
description: |-
  🎂, 💉, 💤
comments: true
---

## My birthday 🎂

Had my birthday on Wednesday. I'm 22 now.

Got a cup of coffee ☕ and toast 🥪 from my work folks. That was a nice way to
start the day.

It wouldn't be wise if my family and I were to go out, so we just stayed at
home.

Instead of a cake 🍰, we ordered [Pizza Hut's 1-meter pizza][l1mo] 🍕. As the
name suggests, it's by no means a normal one. I don't think I'll be craving for
pizza until next month, at least.

I initially wanted to push something out for the day. Maybe my bachelor thesis.
However, I still need to tidy up the main Git branch and write some disclaimers
here and there. I couldn't find the time to do that, yet. Hopefully soon.

## First dose 💉

My family and I finally got our first dose of the vaccine on Friday. We got the
AstraZeneca vaccine. We didn't get to choose, but we didn't mind at all.

My sister and I had a fever on Saturday morning. We got better by afternoon,
but we still felt really tired for the day. We had a lot of sleep, which really
helped.

We're much better now. The fever is gone. There's still some pain in the left
arm, but it's not a big deal.

Curiously, my parents didn't get a fever at all. They also didn't feel much
pain. They're both 50+, though, so that may be a factor.

We'll get our second dose in 12 weeks. It's quite a long wait, but I heard it
[increases the efficacy][astrazeneca].

My other sister works for the government, so she already got fully vaccinated
with the Sinovac vaccine a few months ago.

## Other stuff

I still had a lot of work to do this week. Thankfully, I've mostly finished it.

My friend took another test on Thursday, and he still tested positive. He
already feels much better, though. There's also an improvement in the cycle
threshold (CT) value.

We resumed our (online) weekly sessions. I didn't have much progress of my
instrument learning, as I had been so overwhelmed in the past few weeks. I
think I'm ready to continue now.

It's also a good thing that I got the vaccine on Friday, so I can just rest
for the weekend. That also means I didn't work a lot on anything else.

Someone [contributed a transparent theme][transparent] for giscus this morning,
which is great. I'm using it for the dark mode on this website.

[l1mo]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JYLqWzM-cgY
[astrazeneca]: https://www.astrazeneca.com/media-centre/press-releases/2021/covid-19-vaccine-astrazeneca-confirms-protection-against-severe-disease-hospitalisation-and-death-in-the-primary-analysis-of-phase-iii-trials.html
[transparent]: https://github.com/laymonage/giscus/pull/110
